Welcome to the 2020 Always Rejoice Regional Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses.
From the start, we wish to convey to you greetings from the governing body and the entire
Bethel family, and we want you to know that we love you, and we keep you in our prayers.
So now, whether you are watching this from home or from some other location, this is
our convention for 2020.
And what an encouraging theme, Always Rejoice.
We need to discuss this subject now more than ever before, don't we?
Is it possible to rejoice as the world crumbles around us?
Yes it is.
Those who love Jehovah can always find reasons to rejoice.
Throughout this convention, we will discuss four things that will help us to rejoice.
What are they?
Number one, we will consider the reasons we have for rejoicing.
Two, we will examine how we can cultivate godly joy.
Three, we will look at how we can maintain joy, despite trials.
And four, we will discuss how to express joy.
That is the joy we receive from serving Jehovah.
Now let's lay the foundation for all of this by first answering the question, what is
true joy?
What is commonly called joy is an emotion that is stirred by a feeling of well-being,
by a sense of success, or because of expecting something good.
And for this reason, joy may seem to come and go depending on what is happening around
us.
You might call it circumstantial joy.
But that is not the case with true joy, why?
Because true joy, godly joy, is an aspect of the fruitage of God's Holy Spirit.
True joy is a quality of the heart that is not dependent on external things happening
around us.
This godly quality comes from knowing that you have the truth, that you are doing what
please is God, and that your kingdom hope is certain to be fulfilled.
So then, we see there is a big difference between having circumstantial joy and having joy
of Holy Spirit.
This is illustrated for us in the Scriptures by the example of the Christians in Thessalonica.
The Apostle Paul and others helped them to prepare ahead of time to face persecution
with joy, and prepare they did, how they became strong in faith.
Let's read about what this did for them at first Thessalonians chapter 1 and verse 6.
As we read the verse, ask yourself, where did their deep-seated joy come from?
The verse reads, and you became imitators of us and of the Lord, seeing that you accepted
the word under much tribulation with joy of Holy Spirit.
Where did their joy come from?
Two things are mentioned.
They imitated good examples, and they had the joy that comes from having God's Holy
Spirit on them.
We too can acquire joy of Holy Spirit as mentioned here by applying what we learn and seeking
Jehovah's blessing, His Spirit.
Godly joy is not a mere personality trait that we are born with then is it, and it doesn't
come to us simply because of pleasant circumstances.
Joy of Holy Spirit is found deep within us, and so it should not be confused with simply
being cheerful or exuberant.
Godly joy is not superficial.
It's not found in constantly smiling or laughing.
To show the difference, think of a comedian who seems to be able to find what is funny
in just about any situation in life.
But deep down inside, He may be very unhappy.
In contrast, like the Christians in Thessalonica, we can have joy of Holy Spirit even when we
are under tribulation.
We may not smile through a bad time, but our deep inner joy in serving Jehovah is immovable.
It's part of the new personality that true Christians put on in order to be like Christ.
Now, with this basic understanding of Godly joy in mind, let's give our attention to
Brother Stephen Let, a member of the governing body, as He welcomes us to this always rejoice
convention.
And please listen carefully, as He explains why Godly joy is such a special quality.
Welcome to the always rejoice convention of Jehovah's Witnesses.
We're so happy that you were able to arrange to attend all three days of this convention.
Why were the Apostle Paul's words at Philippians 4.4 chosen as the theme for this year's convention?
Well over the past four years, the governing body has used conventions to highlight qualities
that endear us to Jehovah and help us to be victorious in our struggle against Satan and
his world.
We've had convention themes that focused on the need for loyalty, endurance, courage,
and love.
This year the convention theme highlights the need for joy.
At Nehemiah 8.10 we're told the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.
In the near future our faith will be tested as never before.
But if we acquire true joy with the help of God's Holy Spirit, we will be able to stand
firm and weather all the storms that come our way.
Sadly, joy is a deep-seated quality of the heart.
It's a state of happiness that remains whether the conditions around us are pleasant or
not.
In fact, a person can be disturbed about something, but still have joy in his heart.
For example, the Apostles were flogged for speaking about the Christ.
But they went out from before the Sanadran rejoicing because they had been counted worthy
to be dishonored in behalf of his name.
Obviously, they weren't rejoicing over the flogging they had received, but as servants
of God they found true joy in keeping their integrity to him.
However, is it possible for a Christian always to be rejoicing?
Yes, because true joy is an aspect of the fruitage of God's Holy Spirit.
As an inward quality, joy is not dependent on external things, not even on our brothers,
but it does depend on God's Spirit.
And as already noted, our joy comes from that deep inner satisfaction of knowing that we have
the truth, that we're doing what pleases Jehovah and that our kingdom hope is sure.
So, Godly joy is not the transient joy that people experience because they've secured a
well-paying job. Gone on an exotic vacation, attain fame and prestige, or acquire some coveted
material item or large sum of money. No. True joy has to be cultivated by means of Holy Spirit.
To obtain Jehovah's Holy Spirit, we have to draw close to Him and give Him exclusive devotion
at Acts 532. We're told that God gives Holy Spirit to those obeying Him as ruler.
During these three days, the convention program will help us to deepen our appreciation for Godly joy.
We'll learn what true joy is, how to cultivate it, how to maintain it during difficult times.
And how to display it as it wells up in our hearts. Such joy will clearly identify us as disciples
of Jesus, and it will enable us to serve as beacons of light in this dark world and draw others
to our happy God. You'll note that nearly the entire second day has been devoted to the joy
of disciple-making. Godly joy will help us to face challenges to our integrity. Remember that it
was the joy that was set before Him that helped Jesus to face an excruciating death on a torture
stake. So please pay rapt attention to the talks and videos. Look up the scriptures and read them
along with the speakers. Thus allowing God's Word to exert its powerful force on your heart.
May this convention become a milestone in your development as a joyful imitator of our happy God.
How thankful we are that He made us in His image, giving us the capacity to feel
and express Godly joy. And how thankful we are that He also gives us His Holy Spirit to help us
cultivate that kind of joy. We love you very much. And we pray that each one of you will forever
respond to the words of the Psalmist at Psalm 100 verse 2. Serve Jehovah with rejoicing.
Come into His presence with joyful shouting. We wish to thank Brother Lead for building up our
anticipation for this always rejoice convention. As Brother Lead highlighted, Godly joy is indeed
a very special quality. Such true joy comes from Jehovah Himself. In fact, the Bible says that He
always has reasons to rejoice. So much so that being happy describes His personality.
Let's see this for ourselves as we read 1 Timothy chapter 1 and verse 11.
The context in verses 8 through 10 lists many of the bad qualities and actions that people
of this world display. But they can change if they listen to our joyful God Jehovah.
With that in mind, note the Apostle Paul's inspired words in verse 11 as he goes on to say,
according to the glorious good news of the happy God with which I was entrusted.
Why can Jehovah be called happy despite seeing all of the problems and suffering on the earth?
Well, among the many things that may come happy are the following four.
1. Jehovah is the Creator. Everything He does is perfect. Due to Ronomy 32 in verse 4 says,
perfect is His activity. For this reason, Jehovah can rightly rejoice in His creation. That fact
is undeniable, and it's clearly stated in Psalm 104 and verse 31. As we read it together,
consider how determined Jehovah is to keep His joy. Verse 31 says,
the glory of Jehovah will last forever. Jehovah will rejoice in His works.
The point? Jehovah will not be denied. Well, He will find joy in what He has accomplished.
No one can take that from Him. He's the happy God whose purpose for man and for the earth will
be realized. Adding to His happiness is reason number two. Jehovah is generous, and we know what the
Bible says about those who give, and aren't we grateful for all that Jehovah is providing to help
us and support us now through a very difficult time? Number three, Jehovah's heart is made
glad by the faithfulness of His servants. He never forgets all that we have done.
At Proverbs 23 15, He says, if your heart becomes wise, then my own heart will rejoice.
If we remain faithful to Jehovah, the joy that we can bring to Him will last forever.
And number four, because Jehovah is perfect, He always does what is right. He will never do anything
to spoil His own happiness. Well, now that we have looked at what makes Jehovah the happy God,
we want to know what makes us happy. That is what makes us truly happy, deep down inside happy.
After all, it's not difficult to find superficial happiness.
For instance, when you're near someone with a funny laugh, do you often find yourself laughing
as well? It happens, right? You may not even know what you're laughing about, true?
The point is this, it's not all that difficult to experience superficial happiness,
but to find lasting joy, takes effort, and it takes appreciation for what we have.
We will now look at some of the things that bring us real joy. And as you might expect,
it begins with Jehovah. Our relationship with Jehovah is our foremost reason for joy.
But not just any relationship. Take note of what is needed as we read Psalm 16 and verse 11.
As we do so first, notice what Jehovah does. Next, see what type of relationship we can have with Him.
Then, make the connection to having joy. Psalm 16 verse 11 reads,
You make known to me the path of life in your presence is abundant joy.
So again, first, what does Jehovah do? He kindly makes the path of life known to us.
Next, what type of relationship can we have with Him? A very close one, it says, as if in his very
presence. Then we read that in his presence, there's what? Abundant joy. Now, along with having
a close relationship with Jehovah, as mentioned there, what else brings us joy? Jehovah's Holy
Spirit does. His Holy Spirit generates joy in those who receive it. For this reason, we should
pray to receive His Holy Spirit every day. What else promotes true joy within us? Our marvelous hope.
Also, we have an abundance of spiritual food, even under difficult circumstances.
That joyful blessing was foretold in God's word. To see it, please go to Isaiah chapter 65 and
verses 13 and 14. Now, in these verses, Jehovah draws a contrast between good people and bad people
when he says this, starting in verse 13. Therefore, this is what the sovereign Lord Jehovah says,
Look, my servants will eat, but you will go hungry. Look, my servants will drink, but you will go
thirsty. Look, my servants will rejoice, but you will suffer shame. Look, my servants will shout
joyfully because of the good condition of the heart, but you will cry out because of the pain
of heart. Do you see yourself on Jehovah's side of this contrast? If you've been keeping up with
God's organization, you should feel well fed spiritually. The bad conditions of this world
must not be permitted to take away from our joy. As Jehovah said, we shall joyfully. Why? Because
of the good condition of the heart, we are more ready than ever before to see the realization of
our hope. On the other hand, the world around us is suffering because they lack clear direction.
And they are without real hope. Throughout our lives, and especially at times like this,
we should take note of Jehovah's help. When we see that Jehovah is helping us,
we know that he is with us. We just know it, and this too brings us immense joy. Also,
we find joy in hearing the expressions of faith that come from our dear brothers and sisters,
don't we? And this is true whether we meet together for worship in person or whether we meet by
means of video. In fact, with so much to add to our inner joy, we can come to have a joy so
strong and so deep within us that nothing can shake it. Even persecution, though not enjoyable in
itself, can lead to joy. How so? As Jesus said at Matthew 5, 11, and 12,
happy are you when people reproach you and persecute you and lyingly say every sort of wicked thing
against you for my sake. Rejoice and be overjoyed since your reward is great. So how can we be joyful
even though we are persecuted? Because when we endure persecution with joy and keep our integrity,
we gain a victory and Jehovah's approval. Jesus said rejoice and be overjoyed since your reward
is great. Well, so far we have defined true joy. We have examined why Jehovah is called the
happy God and we have reviewed a number of things that bring us godly joy. But at this point,
you may be wondering, can I really be happy if I am suffering? That's a very good question.
So let's look some more at how or in what sense we can always rejoice.
The fact is that at times all of us may be saddened by injustice, poor health,
unemployment, grief, or other causes for anxiety, such as mankind has experienced with this global
pandemic. And many of our brothers and sisters have been affected by such things, haven't they?
Since that is the case, let's look at how we can apply the words of our convention theme
at Philippians chapter 4 and verse 4. Now, as we read verse 4, Philippians 4-4,
imagine the Apostle Paul writing this while he was in prison bonds or chains, yet full of faith
he said this with God's spirit on him. Always rejoice in the Lord. Again, I will say rejoice.
Why could Paul say this so infatically? Because the Apostle Paul was a man who had true godly joy.
Paul had true joy that was not dependent on what was happening around him or what was happening to him.
From a heart filled with faith, he said that he had joy that was focused in or on the Lord.
That is why Paul was joyful despite any injustice or anxiety that he experienced.
Always rejoice, he said. Again, rejoice. What will help us to apply these inspired words?
Well, like Paul, we too can always rejoice despite unpleasant circumstances when we grow in faith
and seek true joy. We too seek joy that's not merely the result of what happens around us or
what happens to us. When we pray earnestly for God's spirit, he helps us to succeed and to keep
our deep inner joy no matter what trial we may face. Even more than this, we have Jehovah's example
to imitate. He has maintained his joy despite much heartache. What has he endured?
Well, over a period of about 4,000 years, Jehovah saw a number of angels rebel against his sovereignty.
He saw Adam and Eve rebel. He watched wickedness spread across the earth. He saw false worships
bread, and this included what his chosen people the Israelites did as they reverted again and again
to apostasy. Finally, Jehovah saw his enemies, put his son to death. But through it all,
though unimaginably painful for him, Jehovah never lost his deep-seated joy. In fact,
imagine his joy as he watched the vast majority of the angels keep their integrity. Imagine his
joy as he watched faithful Israelites keep their integrity even when faced with death. And imagine
Jehovah's joy as he saw thousands turn to following his son and become true Christians,
a number that today reaches into the millions. Jehovah has always been able to see the light
beyond the storm. May we imitate the happy God and count our blessings every day,
even during the most difficult times. To help us to do this, we have an entire convention
now to enjoy all of its centered on the thought of always rejoicing. This convention includes talks,
symposiums, interviews, a Bible drama, and many videos that will teach us how to cultivate
and display joy of Holy Spirit. Please look at the convention program and let's see what's in
store for us. Our scriptural theme for the first day is also our convention theme scripture
Philippians 4-4, which again says, always rejoice in the Lord. Again, I will say rejoice.
We have so much to look forward to during the first day of this program. For instance,
the opening symposium will show that it's Jehovah's advice not the world's wisdom that brings true
joy when we follow it. Then the dramatic Bible reading will help us to visualize the events
recorded in the book of Ezra. After that, we will enjoy a faith strengthening review of how in the
past, Jehovah saved his people as a group and as individuals. During this critical time,
it's important for us to take to heart what we will hear in that talk entitled rejoice in Jehovah's
Acts of Salvation. In the afternoon session, the second symposium of the day will explain how the
joy in a family is enhanced when each member appreciates and cherishes the others. The last symposium
of the day will show how creation provides convincing proof that Jehovah wants us to enjoy life.
This will be followed by a talk that will discuss how we can find more peace and more joy
by avoiding jealousy and competition. Finally, the first day concludes with a talk that will show us how
those who truly know Jehovah are optimistic, they are generous and patient. As with each part of
this convention, listen carefully to this talk entitled Close Friendship with Jehovah brings the
greatest joy. We now look ahead to the second day of our convention program. The scriptural theme is
based on Psalm 105, verse 3, and there in verse 3 we are encouraged to boast about his holy name,
let the hearts of those seeking Jehovah rejoice. One important way to boast about Jehovah's
holy name is by means of our disciple making work. Tying that in with our convention theme,
the first symposium of the day will leave no doubt that our joy increases as our skills in the
disciple making work improve. Following this, the second symposium will show how we can find joy
in the ministry when we rely on the help that God gives us for this work. The baptism talk
will help those soon to get baptized to keep in mind what they need to do in order to be happy
now and forever. In the afternoon portion of the second day's program, you will hear experiences
during a series of videos that will make you proud to be part of our international brotherhood
of disciple makers. The last symposium of day two will focus on ways you can help your Bible
students to overcome their fears and experience Jehovah's help and his blessings. This will be
followed by a convention highlight. Part one of the Bible drama, The Joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.
After that faith strengthening drama, we will enjoy the final talk of the second day entitled
Making Disciples Now, prepares us for new world disciple making. This talk will help to increase
our enthusiasm not only for the disciple making work of today, but also for that yet to come.
Now we go to the final day of our program. With a scriptural theme taken from Psalm 37 verse 4,
the final day focuses our attention on what lies at the heart of true joy. Psalm 37 4 says,
Find exquisite to light in Jehovah and he will grant you the desires of your heart.
With Jehovah as our focus, we start the day with a seven-part symposium that will highlight how we
can endure trials with joy. Afterward, during the public Bible discourse, the speaker will explain
what riches God promises and how they can be obtained. In the concluding session of our convention,
we will be delighted to watch the thrilling climax of the Bible drama The Joy of Jehovah is your
stronghold. Then the convention program will conclude with the talk, find exquisite to light in
Jehovah. We will all benefit as the speaker reviews what helps us now and what we have to look
forward to in the future. Would you like to see a preview of the many videos we will enjoy at
this convention? We thought so. Let's watch. I tried to look for work, but I was unsuccessful.
It was a struggle even to get water. And the specialist gave us diagnosis of a very aggressive
brain tumor. My negative disposition made me a very impatient, sarcastic and demanding person.
The fact that I was not appointed as an elder made me feel disappointed.
Jehovah will act in the near future fulfilling all his promises and so I'm happy to enjoy.
And when everything around you is chaotic, the one thing you have is your relationship with Jehovah.
Re-gaining joy is a work in progress. I have always admired the beauty and power of the sea.
It reminds me that the one who created the sea, it's not hard for him to care for just one small
human like me. What a wonderful preview. We have so many blessings to appreciate and to draw
strength from. Yes, enjoy the blessings of cultivating joy of Holy Spirit. From this opening
discussion, it's clear that godly joy does not come from random events nor does it come from
this world. Rather, godly joy, true joy is an aspect of the fruitage of God's Holy Spirit.
What will be one of the many blessings that we will experience if we continue to rejoice?
The answer, which this convention will highlight, is found at 2 Corinthians chapter 13 and verse 11.
Please read it along with me. 2 Corinthians 13 and verse 11. It says,
Finally, brothers, continue to rejoice, to be readjusted, to be comforted, to think in agreement,
to live peaceably, and the God of love and of peace will be with you.
So, if you continue to rejoice in serving Jehovah, what is the promise? The promise is that the
God of love and of peace will be with you. With that in mind, let's be determined to always rejoice.
In turn, Jehovah, the happy God will always be with us.